Update example with EFCore, Security and SSL (#7)
DevExpress/XAF-Blazor-Kubernetes-example: README.md

### 2. Clone this repository

> **Note**

> > Remove the `app.UseHttpsRedirection();` call from the Startup.cs file if you are going to run the app behind Nginx reverse proxy (e.g. with Nginx contaier or Ingress Nginx controller in Kubernetes cluster).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Remove the `app.UseHttpsRedirection();` call from the _Startup.cs_ file if you need to run the application behind a Nginx reverse proxy (e.g. with a Nginx contaier or a Ingress Nginx controller in a Kubernetes cluster).
```

> > Remove the `app.UseHttpsRedirection();` call from the _Startup.cs_ file if you need to run the application behind a Nginx reverse proxy (e.g. with a Nginx contaier or a Ingress Nginx controller in a Kubernetes cluster).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Remove the `app.UseHttpsRedirection();` call from the _Startup.cs_ file if you need to run the application behind a Nginx reverse proxy (e.g., with an Nginx container or an Ingress Nginx controller in a Kubernetes cluster).
```

docker run --network="host" -e CONNECTION_STRING=MSSQLConnectionString your_docker_hub_id/xaf-container-example:latest
```

> **Note**: 

> > The Example in this repository requires that you pass a CONNECTION_STRING environment variable. This variable specifies the connection string name (defined in appsetting.json) to be used in the container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The example in this repository requires you to pass a `CONNECTION_STRING` environment variable. This variable specifies the connection string name (defined in the _appsetting.json_ file) to be used in the container.
```

> > The example in this repository requires you to pass a `CONNECTION_STRING` environment variable. This variable specifies the connection string name (defined in the _appsetting.json_ file) to be used in the container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The example in this repository requires that you pass a `CONNECTION_STRING` environment variable. This variable specifies the connection string name (defined in the _appsetting.json_ file) to be used in the container.
```

> Before you proceed, install Ingress NGINX Controller if you haven't done so already. For example, visit the following URL for K3s setup instructions: https://docs.rancherdesktop.io/how-to-guides/setup-NGINX-Ingress-Controller/. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before you proceed, install the Ingress NGINX Controller if you haven't done so already. For example, visit the following URL for K3s setup instructions: https://docs.rancherdesktop.io/how-to-guides/setup-NGINX-Ingress-Controller/. 
```

> **Note**

> > This ingress definition example contains a configuration for HTTPS support. If you do not need this, just remove the `tls` section from the `ingress-srv.yaml` file and skip the creating tls secret. Otherwise, make sure you have a certificate (\*.crt) and key (\*.key) files. You can create self-signed ceritificate for testing purporses:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This example's ingress definition includes configuration for HTTPS support. If you do not need this functionality, remove the `tls` section from the _ingress-srv.yaml_ file and skip the creation of the tls secret. Otherwise, make sure you have a certificate file (_\*.crt_) and a key file (_\*.key_). For testing purposes, you can create a self-signed certificate:
```

> > This example's ingress definition includes configuration for HTTPS support. If you do not need this functionality, remove the `tls` section from the _ingress-srv.yaml_ file and skip the creation of the tls secret. Otherwise, make sure you have a certificate file (_\*.crt_) and a key file (_\*.key_). For testing purposes, you can create a self-signed certificate:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> This example's ingress definition includes configuration for HTTPS support. If you do not need this functionality, remove the `tls` section from the _ingress-srv.yaml_ file and skip the creation of the tls secret. Otherwise, make sure you have a certificate file (_\*.crt_) and key file (_\*.key_). For testing purposes, you can create a self-signed certificate:
```

```
openssl genrsa -out ca.key 2048
```

```
openssl req -x509 \
  -new -nodes  \
  -days 365 \
  -key ca.key \
  -out ca.crt \
  -subj "/CN=yourdomain.com"
```

> Create TLS Secret:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a TLS secret:
```

If you don't want to scale the app automatically and set up Kubernetes, consider **Docker Compose**. 

> The simplest example of the `docker-compose.yml` file contains definitions for two containers. The first uses the `xafcontainerexample` image described above. The second runs a Microsoft SQL Server and allows access to it from the first container. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simplest example of the `docker-compose.yml` file includes definitions for two containers. The first container relates the `xafcontainerexample` image mentioned above. The second one runs a Microsoft SQL Server and allows access to it from the first container. 
```

> The the simplest example of the `docker-compose.yml` file contains definitions for two containers. The first uses the `xafcontainerexample` image described above. The second runs a Microsoft SQL Server and allows access to it from the first container. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simplest example of the `docker-compose.yml` file contains definitions for two containers. The first uses the `xafcontainerexample` image described above. The second runs a Microsoft SQL Server and allows access to it from the first container. 
```

> The simplest example of the `docker-compose.yml` file includes definitions for two containers. The first container relates the `xafcontainerexample` image mentioned above. The second one runs a Microsoft SQL Server and allows access to it from the first container. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The simplest example of the `docker-compose.yml` file includes definitions for two containers. The first container relates to the `xafcontainerexample` image mentioned above. The second one runs a Microsoft SQL Server and allows access to it from the first container. 
```

        ports:
          - "80:80"
        environment:
          - CONNECTION_STRING=DockerComposeMSSQLConnectionString
            
    db:
        image: "mcr.microsoft.com/mssql/server"
        environment:
            SA_PASSWORD: "Qwerty1_"
            ACCEPT_EULA: "Y"
        expose:
          - "1433"
```

> The application is accessible on the 80 port. However, we use the "expose" configuration for the SQL Server container which makes it reachable only inside the Docker network, and the database cannot be accessed outside.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can access the application on port 80. However, we apply the 'expose' configuration option to the SQL Server container. This option makes the server accessible only within the Docker network and inaccessible outside of it.
```

The application can use the following connection string to access the database:

```
Pooling=false;Data Source=db;Initial Catalog=XAFContainerExample;User Id=SA;Password=<your_strong_password>
```

> If you want to run container with https support, update the `docker-compose.yml` file as follows (do not forget specify your certificate password instead of "certificate_password" example placeholder):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to run a container with HTTPS support, update the `docker-compose.yml` file as follows (remember to specify your certificate password instead of the placeholder "certificate_password"):
```

```
version: "3.9"
services:
    web:
        image: "devexpress/xaf-container-example:latest"
        ports:
          - "80:80"
          - "443:443"
        environment:
          - ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT=Development
          - ASPNETCORE_URLS=https://+:443;http://+:80
          - ASPNETCORE_Kestrel__Certificates__Default__Password=certificate_password
          - ASPNETCORE_Kestrel__Certificates__Default__Path=/https/aspnetapp.pfx
          - CONNECTION_STRING=DockerComposeMSSQLConnectionString
        volumes:
          - ~/.aspnet/https:/https:ro
            
    db:
        image: "mcr.microsoft.com/mssql/server"
        environment:
            SA_PASSWORD: "Qwerty1_"
            ACCEPT_EULA: "Y"
        expose:
          - "1433"
```

> Refer the [Microsoft documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/docker-compose-https?view=aspnetcore-7.0#macos-or-linux) to learn more how to set up development certificates for this case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about how to set up development certificates in this case, see the [Microsoft documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/docker-compose-https?view=aspnetcore-7.0#macos-or-linux).
```

> Also, there is another way to support HTTPS with docker compose. You can add a container with Nginx reverse proxy. Here you can find the Dockerfile for Nginx container (`Dockerfile.Nginx`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is also another way to support HTTPS with Docker Compose. You can add a container with the Nginx reverse proxy. Here is the Dockerfile for Nginx container (`Dockerfile.Nginx`):
```

```
FROM nginx:latest

COPY nginx.conf /etc/nginx/nginx.conf
COPY nginx-selfsigned.crt /etc/ssl/certs/nginx-selfsigned.crt
COPY nginx-selfsigned.key /etc/ssl/private/nginx-selfsigned.key
```

> During the image build, we copy the Nginx configuration file `nginx.conf`, and self-signed key and certificate pair to the container. Follow this article to learn how to create self-signed certificate for testing purporses: https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-create-a-self-signed-ssl-certificate-for-nginx-in-ubuntu-16-04. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the image build, we copy the Nginx configuration file `nginx.conf` and the self-signed key and certificate pair into the container. Follow this article to learn how to create a self-signed certificate for testing purposes: [How To Create a Self-Signed SSL Certificate for Nginx in Ubuntu 16.04](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-create-a-self-signed-ssl-certificate-for-nginx-in-ubuntu-16-04).
```

> The Nginx configuration file contains settings for listening port 443 over SSL and forwarding requests to the app server, and redirecting requests from port 80 tp port 443.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Nginx configuration file includes settings for the following operations:

* Listen to port 443 over SSL 
* Forward requests to the application server 
* Redirect requests from port 80 to 443
```

> The updated `docker-compose.nginx.yml` has an additional definition for the Nginx container:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The updated `docker-compose.nginx.yml` file has an additional definition for the Nginx container:
```

```
version: "3.9"
services:
    app:
        image: "ostashev/xaf-container-example:latest"
        pull_policy: missing
        expose:
          - "80"
        environment:
          - CONNECTION_STRING=DockerComposeMSSQLConnectionString
    db:
        image: "mcr.microsoft.com/mssql/server"
        environment:
            SA_PASSWORD: "Qwerty1_"
            ACCEPT_EULA: "Y"
        expose:
          - "1433"
    nginx:
        build:
          dockerfile: Dockerfile.Nginx
        depends_on:
          - app
        ports:
          - "80:80"
          - "443:443"
```

> Run the containers with the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following command to run containers :
```

```
docker compose -f docker-compose.nginx.yml up
```

> Check the app is available in the browser by the URL `https://localhost`. Browser should be redirected from `http` to `https` automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that the application is available in the browser using the following URL - `https://localhost`. The browser should automatically redirect from `http` to `https`.
```

        ports:
          - "80:80"
        environment:
          - CONNECTION_STRING=DockerComposeMSSQLConnectionString
            
    db:
        image: "mcr.microsoft.com/mssql/server"
        environment:
            SA_PASSWORD: "Qwerty1_"
            ACCEPT_EULA: "Y"
        expose:
          - "1433"
```

> You can access the application on port 80. However, we apply the 'expose' configuration option to the SQL Server container. This option makes the server accessible only within the Docker network and inaccessible outside of it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can access the application on port 80. However, we apply the 'expose' configuration option to the SQL Server container. This option makes the server accessible only within the Docker network.
```

```

If you want to run a container with HTTPS support, update the `docker-compose.yml` file as follows (remember to specify your certificate password instead of the placeholder "certificate_password"):

```
version: "3.9"
services:
    web:
        image: "devexpress/xaf-container-example:latest"
        ports:
          - "80:80"
          - "443:443"
        environment:
          - ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT=Development
          - ASPNETCORE_URLS=https://+:443;http://+:80
          - ASPNETCORE_Kestrel__Certificates__Default__Password=certificate_password
          - ASPNETCORE_Kestrel__Certificates__Default__Path=/https/aspnetapp.pfx
          - CONNECTION_STRING=DockerComposeMSSQLConnectionString
        volumes:
          - ~/.aspnet/https:/https:ro
            
    db:
        image: "mcr.microsoft.com/mssql/server"
        environment:
            SA_PASSWORD: "Qwerty1_"
            ACCEPT_EULA: "Y"
        expose:
          - "1433"
```
For more information about how to set up development certificates in this case, see the [Microsoft documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/docker-compose-https?view=aspnetcore-7.0#macos-or-linux).

> There is also another way to support HTTPS with Docker Compose. You can add a container with the Nginx reverse proxy. Here is the Dockerfile for Nginx container (`Dockerfile.Nginx`):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There is also another way to support HTTPS with Docker Compose. You can add a container with the Nginx reverse proxy - the Dockerfile for Nginx container is available here (`Dockerfile.Nginx`):
```

The Nginx configuration file includes settings for the following operations:

* Listen to port 443 over SSL 
* Forward requests to the application server 
* Redirect requests from port 80 to 443

The updated `docker-compose.nginx.yml` file has an additional definition for the Nginx container:

```
version: "3.9"
services:
    app:
        image: "ostashev/xaf-container-example:latest"
        pull_policy: missing
        expose:
          - "80"
        environment:
          - CONNECTION_STRING=DockerComposeMSSQLConnectionString
    db:
        image: "mcr.microsoft.com/mssql/server"
        environment:
            SA_PASSWORD: "Qwerty1_"
            ACCEPT_EULA: "Y"
        expose:
          - "1433"
    nginx:
        build:
          dockerfile: Dockerfile.Nginx
        depends_on:
          - app
        ports:
          - "80:80"
          - "443:443"
```

Use the following command to run containers :
```
docker compose -f docker-compose.nginx.yml up
```

> Ensure that the application is available in the browser using the following URL - `https://localhost`. The browser should automatically redirect from `http` to `https`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the following URL to ensure the application is available in the browser: `https://localhost`. The browser should automatically redirect from `http` to `https`.
```
